docs: update dashboard docs to reflect removal of in-dashboard GitHub Copilot (#808)
microsoft/aspire.dev: src/frontend/src/content/docs/whats-new/aspire-13-3.mdx

  For more details, see [Azure Virtual Network integration](/integrations/cloud/azure/azure-virtual-network/#add-a-network-security-perimeter).
</LearnMore>

> ## 📊 Dashboard: GitHub Copilot removed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 📊 Dashboard integrated GitHub Copilot replaced with local coding agent support
```

> Starting with Aspire 13.3, the GitHub Copilot integration previously built into the Aspire dashboard has been removed. This section explains what changed, how to use AI assistance going forward, and why the new approach is more powerful.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting with Aspire 13.3, the GitHub Copilot-based chat UI previously built into the Aspire dashboard has been removed. This section explains what changed, how to use AI assistance going forward, and why the new approach is more powerful.
```

### What changed

In earlier versions of Aspire (starting with Aspire 9.3), the dashboard included a GitHub Copilot button in the top-right corner when your app was launched from Visual Studio or VS Code with a GitHub Copilot subscription. From there, you could ask Copilot questions about your running app's resources, logs, and traces. Context menus throughout the dashboard also offered **"Ask GitHub Copilot"** and **"Explain error"** options that sent telemetry snippets to Copilot.

In Aspire 13.3, this in-dashboard Copilot UI has been removed.

### Recommended alternative: AI coding agents and MCP

> The recommended approach is to pair your AI coding agent with the [Aspire MCP server](/get-started/aspire-mcp-server/). This gives your AI assistant — GitHub Copilot, Claude, Cursor, or any MCP-compatible agent — programmatic access to your app's structured logs, distributed traces, resource status, and console output. The agent reads the same data you'd see in the dashboard UI, but can act on it directly inside your editor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The recommended approach is to pair your AI coding agent with the [Aspire CLI and agent skills](/get-started/ai-coding-agents/). This gives your AI assistant — GitHub Copilot, Claude, Cursor, or any MCP-compatible agent — programmatic access to your app's structured logs, distributed traces, resource status, and console output. The agent reads the same data you'd see in the dashboard UI, but can act on it directly inside your editor.
```

Set up MCP integration with a single command:

```bash title="Aspire CLI — Initialize AI agent configuration"
aspire agent init
```

> The `aspire agent init` command detects your development environment and configures MCP tools for supported AI coding agents. Once configured, the agent can query dashboard data as part of your normal development workflow — no browser required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `aspire agent init` command detects your development environment and configures skills and MCP tools for supported AI coding agents. Once configured, the agent can query dashboard data as part of your normal development workflow — no browser required.
```

For full setup instructions, see [Use AI coding agents](/get-started/ai-coding-agents/) and [Dashboard and AI coding agents](/dashboard/ai-coding-agents/).

### Why this is better

The in-dashboard Copilot UI required launching your app from a specific IDE (Visual Studio or VS Code) with a GitHub Copilot subscription, and it was limited to a chat panel inside the dashboard. The new agent-based approach:

> - **Works with any AI coding agent** — GitHub Copilot, Claude, Cursor, and others that support MCP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Works with any AI coding agent** — GitHub Copilot, Claude, Cursor, and others that support SKILL.md or MCP.
```

> - **IDE-independent** — Agents connect to the dashboard via the MCP server regardless of how you launched your app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **IDE-independent** — Agents connect to the dashboard via the CLI regardless of how you launched your app.
```

<LearnMore>
  For more details on container networking, see [Inner-loop networking overview](/fundamentals/networking-overview/).
</LearnMore>

> ## ⚠️ Breaking changes

Reviewer 2: This is going to cause big merge conflicts. Put this content in https://github.com/microsoft/aspire.dev/pull/838
